Hi, my name is Chris Emura and I'm the
File System Engineering Manager within
Apple's CoreOS organization.
Today we'll be talking about what's
new with the File System for Tiger.
Over the next 40 minutes or so,
we'll briefly cover the SMP KPI work,
continue on with Extended Attributes,
Access Control Lists,
File Notification Mechanisms,
and the Finder's very own Copy Engine.
I carved out a little bit of time
for what I call "Oldies but Goodies."
These are basically topics which may
not necessarily be new for Tiger,
but are definitely worth
covering in some detail.
And then finally,
the very 15 minutes or so,
the very last 15 minutes,
we'll leave a good
amount of time for Q&A.
Quick word about the intended audience.
The vast majority of today's
presentation content is targeted
toward application developers.
That said, those of you who are
File System or Kernel developers,
as well as IT professionals,
will still get a lot
out of the presentation.
And I will be sure to highlight or
call out other labs and sessions
more closely aligned to your needs.
Okay,
let's just jump into the SMP KPI changes.
I realize this wasn't hyped
up very much in the media,
but this easily represents one of the
most significant changes in OS X history.
The essence of the SMP KPI work
starts with two major benefits.
The first is the capability for the
OS to scale as the hardware scales.
Underscoring all of this was a
big change in the kernel where we
moved away from two giant locks to
a much finer grained locking model.
The benefits from any kind of SMP work
are typically expressed via performance
as the number of CPUs goes up,
but there's also positive impact at
the single processor level as well,
involving better concurrency.
Some examples include the
ability to do concurrent stats,
reads and writes to a single file,
as well as greatly improved lookups,
much faster lookups.
In general, as an application developer,
you get a lot of these performance and
scalability benefits for free without
having to do anything to your code.
The second benefit is
this sustainable KPI,
or Kernel Programming Interface,
which isolates kernel developers
from implementation details.
As many of you already know,
binary compatibility and performance
optimizations on our part are
very difficult when dependencies
are made or built up around
accessing internal data structures,
private variables,
and betting the farm on an
implementation specific.
The KPI prevents that,
or isolates you from those changes,
and gives us binary
compatibility moving forward.
For those of you who are kernel
or file system developers,
I do want to call out the KPI feedback
at apple.com mailing alias.
This is something that's been
active for some time now.
And again,
you can use it to provide feedback,
suggestions, start some dialogue.
I also want to call out this
lab tomorrow at 3:30 PM.
For those of you who are, again,
File System developers,
this is dedicated for you.
It's going to be at 3 o'clock tomorrow
in the Performance and Tools Lab,
which is right behind, I believe,
this wall here.
Before I move on,
and because I won't have a chance to
broadcast this at the lab tomorrow,
I did want to call out two
specifics involving future
plans in the SMP KPI area.
Just to be clear, this slide,
or this particular slide here,
is targeted toward the handful of
File System developers in the room today,
and not you application developers.
The first is that we do plan to
drop Funnel Support in Shibli,
or Leopard.
Is it Leopard?
Yeah, Shibli, their next major release.
This means that all of you will have
to protect your data structures on
your own and not depend on the funnel.
From our own experience at Apple,
and even at other companies which
underwent a similar type of transition,
if this is new territory for you,
you'll probably want to pay special
attention to the potential new races
caused or created in the Rename,
Unlink, and Create paths.
The second change here involves
the FNode cache semantic.
This is a direct I/O of sorts for those
of you familiar with that paradigm.
We do plan to expand this semantic
to the per file descriptor
level as well as maintain the
more global per VNode semantic.
Those of you who write File System will
just have to pay attention to the
I/O flag when you read and write VNOPs.
All right, let's move right along
to Extended Attributes,
or EAs for short.
EAs simply refer to arbitrary
bits of data which do not live
in the actual file itself.
As application developers,
I'm sure there's a ton of EA uses
which we haven't even seen yet.
But examples today include
things like a place to put hints,
checksums, keywords, and so on,
especially in the cases where the file
format you're working with makes no such
allowances for such additional content.
Quick overview here.
Extended Attributes or EAs are going
to be supported on all file systems
and network file system protocols,
starting with Tiger.
In cases where the file
system or network file system
protocol supports EAs natively,
that's fantastic.
We'll go ahead and use that method.
In cases where the file system
does not support EAs natively,
we will synthesize support at
the kernel VFS level and use
Apple Double Files as the backing store.
Apple Double Files are, of course,
those corresponding dot underbar files.
We'll be using a very simple reverse
DNS naming convention for each EA tag.
That's definitely not something
that's new as far as a convention
for file naming and so on.
I didn't want to call out
two current limitations.
The first is an approximate
4K per EA size limitation.
You should note that HFS is
definitely capable of completely
removing this limitation.
We just didn't get around to it.
We'll definitely be able to
move this in the future without
incurring a volume format change.
The second limitation has to
do with the EA API itself.
Currently,
it's very much a get-and-set type API,
even though, again,
we have the implementation
robustness to handle a much more
streams-oriented API or access workload.
Before I jump into the actual
source code walkthrough,
I wanted to give you a lay of
the land of sorts with regard to
the various layers or frameworks.
All of you are already
familiar with Carbon and Cocoa,
but the vast majority of today's
presentation as far as the source
code walkthrough will be taking
place at the BSD API level.
The one exception will be
the Finder copy engine,
which of course takes
place at the Carbon level.
Okay, moving right into the ListXAdder
call as far as the EA API.
ListXAdder, of course,
lists the EAs for a given file.
And if you look at the sample code here,
the flow is actually pretty simple.
We have the first call to
get the size of the list.
We go ahead and then allocate a buffer.
And then, of course,
the second call to get the list itself.
This particular call is wrapped
in this LSX.C sample code.
Incredibly simple,
incredibly distilled down,
very easy to read.
It's a command line utility of sorts
you can use to experiment with EAs.
The Get Ex Adder call, of course,
gets a particular EA on a given file.
Similar flow to the list call
in terms of the two passes,
if you will.
The first to get the size,
and the second to get the, in this case,
the EA itself.
This is going to be wrapped
in that same sample code.
Moving on to the Set X Add or Call.
This of course sets an
EA for a given file.
This comes in its own wrapper as
far as this setx.c sample code.
Again, very simple and distilled down.
You can use to experiment with.
I didn't want to call
out the last argument.
And here it's zeroed out.
But the last argument to
the Set X Add or Call,
it's an options field.
And for the Set Call,
you can actually specify setting an
EA for a symlink or a symlink target.
You're able to differentiate
between those two.
And we've also provided a
replace semantic where you get
an error if the EA already exists
and also a create semantic,
which is very similar
to the open O create.
The Remove X Adder call rounds
off the EA API family and of
course simply removes an EA or
named EA from a given file.
It's worth noting that all of
these calls have got an equivalent
identical version that takes a
file descriptor instead of a path.
And that option I mentioned
about differentiating between a
symlink with a symlink target is
a common option for all of them.
This Remove X Adder call here is
wrapped in its own rmx.c sample code.
It's the same theme,
it's like a utility you can use to
play around or experiment with EAs.
Okay,
a quick few words about preservation.
Preservation is something that
all of you need to be mindful,
even if you do not use EAs directly.
I typically worry most about those
of you who are doing your own copies,
moves, archives, backups, or safe saves.
By safe save,
I simply refer to a mechanism
whereby prior to modifying a file,
you go ahead and make a complete copy,
you work on the copy version,
close it off,
and then do an atomic rename or
exchange data so that you get these
all-or-nothing type semantics.
But in general,
when it comes to preservation,
we have an internal mantra we use that
always boils down to three things.
The first, of course, is data.
This is no surprise to anyone.
Basically, what's in the file,
the data fork.
For those of you who are
familiar with that paradigm.
The second one involves EAs,
or attributes in general, and EAs,
Extended Attributes.
You should note that things like
the finder info and resource fork
will show up in the EA namespace,
so you are able to use the
EA API to preserve those.
The third thing here is
the security information.
In our context for today,
this is typically going to be the
ACLs or the access control lists.
I'll be talking about that in a
little bit more detail shortly.
But again,
if you need to focus on these three
things when it comes to preservation,
you need to be mindful of the EAs.
preservation, you'll be in good shape.
I wanted to bring up industry
fragmentation a little as far
as it relates to preservation.
And by industry fragmentation,
I just mean that if you look throughout
the industry on various platforms,
and even versions within those platforms,
EA support can be spotty, right,
as far as what's supported, what's not.
On top of that,
you also have size limitations,
which definitely are not
consistent throughout the industry,
and sometimes have very
dubious error paths,
if you will,
as far as losing things that kind
of fall off or get truncated.
So definitely something
to be aware of there.
On the topic of industry fragmentation,
we have tried some things
internally that have been
exported via things like the tar,
the tar binary on our system,
where we do synthesize dot underbar
files to help deal with some
of this industry fragmentation.
But it's by no means a panacea or,
you know, a complete solution.
So just something to be mindful about.
Of course, tools, applications,
and utilities on our platform
have been retrofitted or
modified to be EA-aware and,
of course, preserve everything.
This, of course, starts with the Finder,
as far as Finder file operations,
copy and move, and so on.
It goes all the way down
to the core commands,
especially the big ones like CP, move,
tar, and rsync.
I believe that's the first time
in history this has happened,
so-- I mean, out of the box anyway.
So a big round of applause for those
people that have done that work.
On the topic of preservation,
I did want to call out two calls.
The first one is this rename call
as far as semantics that we've
worked hard to preserve here.
Rename is typically used a lot in that
safe-save context I mentioned earlier.
To demonstrate this semantic,
we start with two files, foo and bar,
and both these files have been
initialized with the data in an
EA that clearly reflects their
initial state or their origins.
We go ahead and do a
rename of foo to bar.
And you see that the rename semantic
is very much intact in terms of all
that has really changed is the name.
I mean, the file foo is now called bar.
The data and the EI are exactly
where you'd expect them to be.
The second call I wanted to
highlight here was Exchange Data as
far as those semantics.
And again, we start off with the
exact two same files,
foo and bar,
same initial state with regard
to the data in the EA that
clearly reflects their origins.
We go ahead and do an
exchange data on Foo and Bar.
And here you see that the exchange data
semantic has also been very much intact.
As far as all that has
changed is the data fork,
if you will.
It's been swapped or exchanged.
Everything else,
as far as the name and the EA,
and the ACLs for that matter.
But the ACLs just follow the
EA as far as the semantics go.
The exchange data semantic
here has been preserved.
I know this might take a little
while to get used to or digest,
but you do have those utilities
to play around with this.
And as long as they've been called out,
this is something that you can
predigest in your own time,
I suppose.
Okay, moving on to access control lists,
or ACLs for short.
In a nutshell,
ACLs are a permissions model
typically associated with,
but definitely not limited to,
files and directories.
As an application developer,
they give you much finer
granularity around what you,
your application,
and your users can and cannot access.
They do help enable much
more effective collaboration,
workflow, and sharing.
Fortunately, the ACL paradigm is not
new to the industry,
so you'll find a good use of,
or a good group of users and
professionals that will be able to use
this functionality right out of the
box without any kind of initial shock.
Let's go over some quick
terminology that will be used
throughout today's presentation,
actually even in some of the
documentation and source.
Access Control List or ACLs,
which are made up of
Access Control Entries or ACES.
The old school POSIX or UNIX UID,
User ID, and Group ID.
You want to spend a little time
here as far as GUIDs and UUIDs.
For the purposes of today's presentation,
as well as I've noticed
in the header files,
documentation, source code,
and things like that, in that context,
as far as ACLs is concerned,
these two terms are used interchangeably.
So don't get too hung up with that as
far as some of the swapping that goes on,
especially in a few of the
header files I've seen.
Of course,
we have the Windows Security ID,
just the model used in the
Windows network and security protocols.
Okay,
let's start off with where we are today,
or where we were as far as the old
school historic Unix permissions model.
The UID, GID, and this Mode T,
or these permission bits.
Pretty straightforward.
You've got, you know, read, write,
and execute bits for the owner, yourself,
a group you belong to,
and then other or the rest of the world.
Read, write, and execute there.
You also have this sticky bit semantic,
which a lot of you are familiar
with in terms of temp directories,
drop boxes, and such.
You also have this set UID and set GID,
most commonly used for running
executables as someone else.
A bit of a no-no.
Also have this 16 group limit,
this historic 16 group limit,
and there are definitely no nested
groups or groups within groups.
So you compare that with the
much finer granularity of ACLs,
and here I've just enumerated
the permissions for a file and
their directory counterparts.
You should note that there's definitely
a allow or deny tag that's associated
with each one of these permissions,
so the granularity is quite fine without
being overly complex or complicated.
If you look at any one of
these permissions here,
there's nothing here that seems very
difficult to understand or grasp.
Let's do a little overview here.
ACLs, again, are made up of ACES,
or Access Control Entries.
Here I've cut and pasted a little
bit from the retrofitted ls command,
showing the ACL or the access
control list for the file foo.
You'll see them enumerated
there as far as the seven ACES.
If you look closely at this,
you'll see that we do
support inheritance,
but by inheritance I want to call
out the fact that we only support
static inheritance at this time.
Static inheritance simply refers to
the fact that an object or a file
or directory inherits its ACE from
its immediate parent at create time.
Now you contrast that with what a lot
of you think about when you think about
inheritance in general with regard to
you have a huge directory hierarchy,
and you want to slap an ACE on
at the very top of the root and
have it somehow trickle down.
That can be done manually,
but as far as static inheritance, again,
static inheritance is the case where
an object inherits its ACE from its
immediate parent at create time.
This last bullet here is my attempt
to give you a simple mental model for
how the kauth or kernel authorization
subsystem makes its decisions,
how the ACLs model kind of works.
We always start with this tuple,
this identity, operation,
and object tuple.
The identity is basically
you or your GUID.
The operation is what
you're trying to do,
whether it be a read, write, delete,
and so on.
And the object in this case,
in this context, is typically going to
be a filer directory.
So you start off with that tuple.
We go ahead and scan the ACEs in order,
as far as you look at that list above,
the one through seven.
Scan those ACEs in order,
try to make a decision, and of course,
along the way,
we go ahead and compare identities
and resolve groups as needed.
If after all of that we still cannot
make a decision or don't have enough
information to make a decision,
we do fall back to the POSIX Mode T,
or those old school Unix
permissions I mentioned earlier.
So that in a nutshell is the
mental model as far as the
ACLs decisions are concerned.
Continuing on with the overview,
ACLs are enabled by default
on the server product only.
And I put only in quotes
here just because there is a
FS ACL cuddle command that ships
on even the non-server version.
I don't think it's currently documented.
That'll probably change.
But I have a slide.
The next slide will show a quick
usage there so you can get started
and start experimenting with
ACLs on your non-server version.
The supported file systems and network
file system protocols include HFS,
CIFS, and AFP.
And note that because we
are so functionally close
to the Windows ACLs model,
there's great potential with regard to
the CIFS client and integration there.
For those of you who are
IT professionals or just want to
learn more about ACLs in general,
there's a very dedicated
session tomorrow at 2:00,
session 617, so be sure to attend that.
Here's that command
line blurb I mentioned.
Here we go ahead and use the fsaclcuddle
command to enable ACLs on a volume,
the dash p or dash path to
specify the mount point,
dash e to enable.
Although it might not
be in the documentation,
if you do go ahead and enable ACLs
on your volume just to play around,
you may want to then unmount
and mount that volume,
or just reboot just to make sure there's
no caching effects in the upper layers.
The change mod command here has
been retrofitted with this +a or -b,
and it's been retrofitted
with the change mod command.
So if you want to use the change mod
command to enable ACLs on your volume,
you can do that.
Here's that command
line blurb I mentioned.
Here we go ahead and use the fsaclcuddle
command to enable ACLs on a volume,
the dash p or dash path to
specify the mount point,
dash e to enable.
Although it might not
be in the documentation,
if you do go ahead and enable ACLs
on your volume just to play around,
you may want to then unmount
and mount that volume,
or just reboot just to make sure there's
no caching effects in the upper layers.
The change mod command here has
been retrofitted with this +a or -b,
and it's been retrofitted higher
level GUI administrative tools.
Let's go ahead and walk through
the Access Control List,
or the ACL API,
the user-land version anyway.
I wrote a very quick
ACL API fragment.c sample project.
All this sample project does is
create a file foo in the current
working directory with what
I consider read-only permissions.
And I know that sounds
incredibly straightforward,
but there is quite a bit of detail that
I want to walk through just because,
again, the documentation has
been in a state of flux.
First thing we do here is make the
path conf call to see if ACLs are
even supported on the directory or
the file system we're working with.
Pass in this extended
security non-portable flag.
For those of you who work with
network file system clients,
there's also a PC auth opaque
NP or non-portable flag you can
pass in to see if authorization is
occurring locally or on the server.
Again, that's probably more useful
for those of you who deal with
network file system clients.
We go ahead and get
our GUID from the UID.
This is probably one of the most
frequently asked questions from
the last WWDC as to how do I get
or how do I generate a UID.
These MBR, these member functions,
are finally documented in Tiger,
so take a look at those.
There's some good
detail in the man pages.
So we go ahead and generate our
UID and pass it on into this
ACL read-only example function.
This is the function that
does all of the heavy lifting.
So let's go ahead and dive into that.
ACL init, go ahead and initialize
our ACL structure.
I'm not sure why I passed in 32 there.
But basically 32 simply refers
to the number of aces or slots
in that particular structure
or that particular ace.
There's a corresponding ACL free
call that you should be using
to clean up after yourself.
Create Entry: Create an actual ACE.
The actual call I wanted to highlight was
the non-portable version of this call.
If you remember the mental
model I mentioned earlier where
we process the ACEs in order,
you can see that order obviously matters
for both deny and allow permissions.
So this non-portable version of
the call does allow you to specify
a position as a third argument.
Definitely a useful feature.
Allow or deny,
we go ahead and set allow in this case,
and then go ahead and associate
our UUID with that particular ACE.
The classic get, clear, add,
and set flow.
This is basically where we just add
the read-only permissions that I've
defined to that particular ACE.
Those read-only permissions are
defined a lot earlier in the file.
And here you'll note that there's
an interesting parallel with that
preservation mantra I mentioned earlier,
where we fixate on three things,
the data, the attributes,
and the security information.
So that's a consistent theme there.
Finally,
get to see the light at the end of
the tunnel with regard to associating
with the actual creation of the file.
Here we use this extended
non-portable open,
the openx_np.
There's a whole class of calls
like this as far as being extended
and non-portable that take a file
sec t as an additional argument.
That file security object
is what houses our ACL,
and it's what we pass in.
So basically here,
if the open call succeeds,
you'll be left with a file foo with those
read-only permissions I defined earlier.
Okay, moving on to file notification.
As application developers,
it doesn't take much imagination to see
how important file or directory chain
notification can be for your deployments.
And again,
although it's not new for Tiger,
I didn't want to call out KQs
as being the de facto standard
for userland file notification.
Those of you who have seen KQs or have
used it on other platforms realize that
it's far more efficient than disjoint
implementations of SELECT and PULL.
It's great for directory
update notification.
In fact, our very own Finder uses KQs,
and it's very evident when you
look at highly visible active
windows like the desktop,
for example.
You go ahead and create some files
in a terminal or an SSH session
and see them appear instantly and
very efficiently in the desktop.
That said,
there still are some current limitations.
The first is that KQs aren't currently
supported in all volume formats,
although if you've been
following the industry,
you do realize that there is
precedent to uplift KQ support
into the kernel VFS layer such
that all file systems can benefit.
Local only here refers to the
single client or single server
multiple client type configuration
where an update caused by another
client may not show up on yours.
No payload actually means
a lot of different things,
but here I just want to call out one case
where when you do register for an event,
you don't get any hint or payload
that tells you what has changed.
So, in the case where you register
against a particular directory and
you're just waiting for events there,
you'll get an event that tells you
that the directory has changed,
but you won't have a payload or hint
to let you know what file or directory
within that directory has changed.
Finally, there is what I refer to as the
Recursive Directory Hierarchy Challenge.
This is the case where you as a developer
want to monitor an entire directory
hierarchy and then be notified whenever
anything in that hierarchy changes.
Of course, with a single KQ registered
against the root immediately
underneath that particular parent,
a change that happens much lower
in the hierarchy will go unnoticed.
Because it is a de facto standard
for user land file notification,
we did provide some
really simple sample code.
Again,
this is another completely standalone
command line utility that can be
run against a file or directory
and then prints the standard out
whenever something has happened.
We start by allocating a KQ structure
here and then go ahead and use the EV set
macro to initialize that data structure.
I did want to call out
the OEventOnly flag,
which for some reason
isn't highlighted here,
that flag over there in the open call.
A very useful flag to use,
especially for those of you who
have always been hit by the I cannot
eject the volume cleanly type
scenario where you try to eject
or unmount a volume and you get a
message telling you that it's in use.
This particular flag here is useful
in that case where your reference
will not prevent the volume.
from being unmounted cleanly.
[Transcript missing]
As I mentioned earlier
in the ACLs portion,
the KAUTH subsystem is a general
framework or kernel framework for
authorization decision making.
I really want to highlight
the second point.
It was not initially designed for
file or directory notification.
That said,
if you look at how cleanly it's been
architected as far as we finally have a
case where the redundant authorization
code has been uplifted and stripped
out of the individual file systems
and then centralized so everything
effectively goes through the subsystem.
So you take a look at that
particular architecture,
that design,
and you combine that with the
fact that we do allow third-party
developers to write keks or plug-ins,
and it becomes very tempting to use
this as a file notification mechanism.
Should you go down this path,
the basic design involves the
registration of authorization
events you're interested in,
that's your scopes,
and a pretty simple voting mechanism.
Actually, the main takeaway from this
slide here is that your plugin or
your text is permitted to block,
and this is shorthand for it's very easy
for you to bring the entire system down.
So definitely be aware of that.
You want to take care if you're in a
commonly called authorization path.
It's the hot paths I mentioned there,
basically something that's getting
called over and over again.
And you want to be extra paranoid if
your text calls outside of itself,
because you definitely increase
your chances for deadlock there.
For those of you who really want
to do this kernel programming,
go down this particular path,
we do have two documents,
or two reference bits
of reference material.
I believe the first one,
I think they're both on the DTS website,
you can do a search for kauth.
There's some documentation
as far as a white paper,
and then there's also this sample text
you can use to get started and experiment
a little bit with the kauth subsystem.
Okay, let's go ahead and move up
the stack a level into the
Carbon File Manager domain.
If you remember all of those steps
you had to take to preserve data,
EAs, and ACLs,
and it's a little bit too hairy for you,
you can save yourself a lot of
trouble and finally use the same
copy engine the Finder does.
When you get a chance,
take a look at this FS file
operation sample project,
which again is a basic,
simple command line wrapper that
demonstrates this functionality.
I've just called out the async
version of this copy call,
but keep in mind that there's
also a move variant and a simpler
synchronous version of both calls.
This API supports both the
POSIX paths as well as FS refs.
It supports a limited form pre-flight
and is integrated with the CF run loop.
So again, just go ahead and check out
the FS file operation sample
project there to get started.
Okay,
oldies but goodies are winding down here.
These are basically issues again that
may not necessarily be new for Tiger,
but are definitely worth
covering in more detail,
especially since documentation can
sometimes be scant or non-existent.
The first thing I wanted to call
out was this UID or this User ID 99.
This is actually,
this starts with the Ignore Ownership
on this volume checkbox that
you'll see on the finder's Get Info
panel for any non-network volume.
That setting is the default for
drives which were not present
at first boot after an install.
If you're not sure,
you can go ahead and take a look at
the var db volinfo.database to see
if your drive is actually in there.
This corresponds to this mount ignore
ownership bit in the mount T structure.
You can programmatically check
for this by calling statfs
and look at the F flags field,
I believe.
The mount HFS,
the lower level mount HFS mount command
itself does take a -u and -g option.
We can provide a user and/or group.
And that capability definitely
adds a wrinkle with regard
to expected semantics.
So what I wanted to do was
walk through some of the
possible configurations there.
This is the default case where
you're basically doing nothing.
You're not setting any bit or setting
any flag in the finder get info panel,
and you're certainly not
passing anything in as far as
the mount command is concerned.
There you get pretty
much what you'd expect.
The UIDs and GIDs are preserved,
meaning that what you read
is what's actually on disk,
and what's written is
pretty much who you are.
They raise this wildcard, this UID 99,
as far as preexisting files
and directories with this UID.
Those will be considered owned by the
current user for authorization purposes,
so you'll have free
reign over those files.
Again, this is the default case.
For volumes mounted with
that Mount Ignorant Bit set,
where you basically go in the Finder
window and you check that bit,
but you still haven't passed anything
in with regard to the Mount HFS command,
here your UID reported will be 99,
regardless of what's on disk.
And what's written will be 99,
regardless of what your UID is.
Items will be considered owned.
Files and directories will be
considered owned by the current
user for authorization purposes.
Basically means you have free
reign over that particular volume.
So far, so good.
Here's where things get a little bit more
tricky as far as volumes mounted with
that Mount Ignorant Ownership Bit set.
And you're also passing in an
explicit owner at mount time
via that Mount HFS command.
There, the UID and GID reported will
be whatever you passed in.
What's written will still be 99,
and files and directories will be
considered owned by the provided
owner for authorization purposes.
And then rounding off as
far as the fourth case,
in the case where mounting
ownership bit is not set,
but you are passing in an
explicit user group at mount time.
This is actually kind of similar to
the first default case where UIDs and
GIDs are preserved for the most part,
meaning that what you read is
what's on disk and what you
write is pretty much who you are.
The difference here is
that items with the UID 99,
as far as files and directories on
disk with pre-existing UIDs of 99,
will be considered owned by the provided
user for authorization purposes.
Okay,
moving on to some miscellaneous topics.
The F-Sync one especially.
This has definitely got a lot of
mileage on the external boards.
The first,
this F-Sync one involves widespread
public misconceptions around F-Sync on
OS X not working correctly or resulting
in some kind of data loss or corruption.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
F-Sync on OS X and just about every other
Unix platform has always flushed data
from the host or from the system down
to the drive on which the file resides.
The critical detail to be
aware of here is that while the
data has made it to the drive,
it may be in the drive cache
and not the actual platters,
what we consider stable storage.
To complicate matters much further,
the drive or the storage subsystem
may also reorder the writes such
that any given writes in say A,
B, C order followed by an F-Sync
and then more writes in D,
E, F order followed by a
fault or a power outage,
crash, whatever.
You may see cases where, you know,
writes A and D have made it
to disk but B and C have not.
This behavior is clearly unacceptable
for a whole bunch of users as
far as the general file system,
databases or any applications
that require this unstable
storage semantic and,
you know, no write reordering.
So we've introduced this F-Sync F-control
to ask the drive to flush its cache.
Of course,
history continues to demonstrate that
there are certain drives or storage
solutions which Apple does not qualify
that basically ignore this command anyway
and you're left with the same problem.
Of course,
history continues to demonstrate that
there are certain drives or storage
solutions which Apple does not qualify
that basically ignore this command anyway
and you're left with the same problem.
HFSx or Case Sensitive HFS.
This last point here is something you
kind of mentioned in the feedback forum
as far as case insensitive environments.
As application developers,
my plea to you here,
or the takeaway I want
you to focus on here is,
you know,
please test your applications on
these case sensitive environments.
We've had incidents both internally and
externally that have resulted in breakage
just because an application developer,
for whatever reason,
was hard coding these
lookups in their code.
And they got away with it for
a long time as far as running
on case insensitive HFS.
But again, if you can just test all your
applications in your environment,
make sure there's at least one
matrix configuration for this
case insensitive configuration.
Okay, tools.
Tools to help you debug
file system issues.
The first one is FS Usage.
Pretty straightforward.
This is actually a pretty simple command.
Pretty powerful, too,
in terms of dumping out all file
system activity on your given
platform or on your given system.
I personally use the "-w option a lot
to get a much wider printout of the path
and just more information in general.
There's also this dyld image
suffix variable you can use.
You can set it to default and just get
the Carbon File Manager calls in line
in context with regard to the output.
The man page has got all that detail,
so be sure to reference that.
The Sample Call or the Sample Utility
is definitely not file system specific,
but we use this quite a bit
internally to help debug cases
where the system is hung,
at least user-land-wise it's hung.
You get the spinning beach
ball of death and so on.
The Sample Utility can be pointed against
a particular process and you'll get
a number of stack traces to give you
a hint as to where things are stuck.
LSOF List of Open Files.
This is definitely not specific to OS X.
It's imported on a
number of Unix platforms.
This is most useful in cases where
you're trying to debug a situation.
You've got a lingering reference
on a volume that cannot be
cleanly ejected or unmounted.
LSOF is great for dumping that
out as far as being run as root.
One thing you want to
be aware of in Tiger,
which is nice,
is the fact that LSOF has been
enhanced to print out MMAP references.
That's definitely a welcome
change and will help you catch
those type of references as well,
which previously went
unnoticed on Panther.
KTrace, basic syscall level tracing,
very similar to PAR on
iRix or Trust on Solaris.
Basically gives you the syscall,
a little bit of payload
information and return value.
It can give you a feel for
where things are going wrong.
And then finally you've got
general profiling tools like Shark.
I like Shark just because it does
cross the user land kernel boundary.
It gives you a little bit more holistic
view of what's going on with your app.
It's also quite good at digesting
huge amounts of data and showing
them in nice condensed GUI form.
So you can kind of pinpoint areas
you want to drill down on and
figure out what's going wrong.
I'm just going to do a quick demo
here to demonstrate those command
line utilities I mentioned earlier
and also kind of hit home with the
preservation mantra I mentioned earlier.
I'll go ahead and switch to the demo.
[Transcript missing]
So this is a representation of
what you have on your DVDs or on
the DTS website as far as those
utilities I mentioned earlier.
They have been Xcodified if you
want to go ahead and use that,
but I'm just going to
quickly do a make here.
[Transcript missing]
So, you know,
I'm just going to create a file here,
touch A as far as, and then do a set X,
what should we call it, com.apple.
Set an EA for this particular file.
Pretty simple semantics there,
simple usage there.
List those extended attributes there.
You can remove them as well, I guess.
Remove X.
So we removed it there,
unless nothing's there.
Let's go ahead and set
it again real fast.
Wanted to quickly show that
if you look at things like
the copy command-- actually,
the only way we should do is actually set
an ace for this particular file as well.
So change mode, plus a-- actually,
who am I?
Let's go ahead and just add an
A quickly to that file there.
Change mode, plus A, it's local,
allow read, something really simple.
Of course that ls-le again
on A will show it there.
So now we have a file A with both
an ACL and some extended attributes.
Just to show that the copy
command does work as advertised.
Oh, you know what we should do
is actually use the preserve.
I forget about this all the time.
This is the default for the finder,
but not for the copy command.
It's just preserve,
or preserve permissions and stuff.
A.copy.
So just make sure that the actual
EAs are preserved as well as the...
More interesting thing for a
lot of you is the Finder info,
or the Finder making sure that
it does the same thing here.
As far as the A,
I'm going to go ahead and select that.
Do a duplicate as far as the Finder copy.
That's kind of difficult to read there,
but if we do an LSX of A star,
you'll see that the A space
copy is also preserved.
That's the byproduct of
the Finder copy there.
Just to show you guys what I said earlier
about the Finder info and resource forks
also showing up in the EA namespace.
I'll go ahead and start with that file A.
I'll go ahead and create an alias.
We'll get a resource
fork loaded up there.
Also, that's the easiest way to do this.
We get info,
kind of tag that file with a color,
which will get some Finder
info information in there.
It's red now.
Again, if we do a LSX of A star here,
you will see that that file A,
as far as that little flag I added,
that color flag, got a Finder info entry.
Then the alias itself, of course,
lives in the resource fork.
All of that stuff is preserved.
If you do a copy, So, cp minus p.
- Another copy.
You'll see that that's preserved
as well as far as even that flag,
that red flag I added there earlier.
Also show that the ACLs
have been preserved as well.
So you see here that the ACEs
for those particular files and
their copies are all preserved.
That's pretty much it as far
as just showing you how these
utilities basically work.
You can play around with this
and experiment with scalability,
performance, and all those things.
Pretty straightforward stuff.
Right?
All right.
I think we're about done.
We're not quite done yet.
It's more information really quickly.
Go to this WWDC site here.
Again, do a search on this particular
session or the kauth if you
wanted to dive into that a bit.
Those two related sessions
I mentioned earlier,
the ACL session tomorrow at 2:00,
and then right after that in
the Performance and Tools Lab,
the session or the lab targeted
towards FOSTER developers.
But if anyone, feel free to attend and
interact with my group.
Some contact information.